This text file of deveops is a general information on how devops works, how the softwares are managed etc.

What is Devops?
	DevOps is a methodology that combines development (Dev) and operations (Ops) to enhance collaboration and efficiency in software development and IT operations. 
 In general DevOps is a software development practice that combines development and operations to deliver better products faster.

Roles of Devops?
There are various roles, such as:
DevOps engineer:
	Responsible for building and maintaining infrastructure, writing and testing code, and overseeing networks and servers. 
	DevOps engineers also integrate code, maintain applications, and administer applications.

Why Devops?
	DevOps is a software development practice that combines the words "development" and "operations" to describe a culture that emphasizes collaboration, automation, and continuous improvement. 

Azure Devops:
	Collaborate on software development through source control, work tracking, and continuousintegration and delivery, both on-premises and in the cloud!

What is agile and how is it related to devops?

Which Softwares can track work?
Jira
Rally
Azure DevOps

We also need
CI/CD Engines
Test Management
Artifact Management
Document Repository
Version control system

A software which gives all of below is called as ALM (Application Lifecycle Managment)
Agile Management
CI/CD Engines
Test Management
Artifact Management
Document Repository
Version control system

JIRA from Attlassian and Azure DevOps are popular tools in this area

What are CI/CD pipeline?
CI/CD pipeline is all about giving feedback about change done in the source code.

What is pipeline in DevOps?
	A DevOps pipeline is a structured set of automated processes and tools that development and operations teams use to build, test, and deploy software efficiently and reliably. 
	Its primary goal is to streamline the software development lifecycle (SDLC), enabling rapid delivery of high-quality software products.

How PipeLine works?
	They work on Agents

What are Agents?
These are systems on which pipeline executes.
There are 4 options
	MS hosted Agents
	Self hosted Agents
	Virtual Machine agents
	Containers


We write the pipeline in Yaml file.
refer here for the pipeline schema: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/yaml-schema/?view=azure-pipelines

Pipeline may have stages or jobs or steps
stages: coleection of jobs
jobs: collection of steps
steps: its actual work

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Way of working:
	* Ensure you have manual steps for building, packaging, testing and deploying.
	* Convert these manual steps into yaml format.

Example: 
	triggers:
		-main
	pool:
		vmImage:'ubuntu-latest'    # other options: 'macOS-latest', 'windows-latest'
	steps:-task:Maven@4
		inputs:
			goals:'clean package'
			publishJUnitResults:true
			testResultsFiles:'**/TEST-*.xml'

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

We can use Azure DevOps or jenkins for learing: 
There are also other options available.
	
Azure Devops:
===== =======
	refer here for Azure Devops Login: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/products/devops

In the left side we can find all the options like: 
	Overview:
	Boards:
	Repos:
	PipeLines:
	Test Plans:
	Artifacts:

We can inport the projects/code from various repositories from Repos.
In order for building the package we need package manager like maven, gradle, etc

We can install them in agents.

Asure Agents:
----- -------
To build your code or deploy your software using Azure Pipelines, you need at least one agent. 
As your codebase and team grow, you'll need more agents.

When your pipeline runs, the system begins one or more jobs. 
"An agent is computing infrastructure with installed agent software that runs one job at a time." 

	MicroSoft Hosted Agent:
		This is system from the MS.
	
	Self Hosted:
		This is installing Azure Devops on system
	
Azure Pipeline:
----- ---------
	A pipeline defines the continuous integration and deployment process for your app. 
	It's made up of one or more stages.
	It can be thought of as a workflow that defines how you test, build, and deployment steps are run.	

We can create the pipeline in Azure from the side menu option inside the project selected.
	
Pipeline is a collection of Stages, Jobs and steps

Stages: collection of Jobs
Job: collection of steps
steps: collection of commands

steps are low level activity.

ex: 
---
pool: give agent name
steps:
  - bash: give first bash command
  - bash: second command etc

Azure Devops Tasks: 
	A task performs an action in a pipeline. 
	For example, a task can build an app, interact with Azure resources, install a tool, or run a test. 
	Tasks are the building blocks for defining automation in a pipeline.

Tasks vs steps:
	A task is a predefined action that performs a specific function in the pipeline, such as building code, running tests, or deploying applications.
	A step is the smallest building block of a pipeline and can consist of either a task or a script.


Triggers:
execute the pipeline when there is a trigger 
types: 
	git pull
	Schedule


Azure Parameters
Azure Variables

Variable Groups





