What is Teraform?
    Teraform is an open-source infrastructure as code (IaC) software tool created by HashiCorp. 
    It allows users to define and provision infrastructure resources in a declarative configuration language called HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL).
    teraform makes sure to have the actual state based on desired state

Why teraform?
    teraform is a popular infrastructure as code (IaC) tool that provides several benefits for managing cloud and on-premises resources:

* Multi-Cloud Compatibility
  teraform supports over 100 providers including AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, Kubernetes, and more.
    This allows managing infrastructure across multiple cloud providers using the same syntax
  
* Infrastructure as Code
    teraform uses a declarative configuration language called HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL) to define infrastructure resources in human-readable files that can be versioned, shared, and reused.

* Automation and Efficiency
    teraform handles the underlying logic when creating resources, eliminating the need for manual effort. 
    It determines resource dependencies and can create or modify non-dependent resources in parallel, ensuring resources are provisioned properly and efficiently.

* Collaboration and Consistency
    teraform configuration files can be committed to version control systems, enabling collaboration and preventing unauthorized changes. 
    Using modules, teams can define and share approved infrastructure patterns for consistency across environments
    
* Tracking and Visibility
    teraform configuration files can be committed to version control systems, enabling collaboration and preventing unauthorized changes. 
    Using modules, teams can define and share approved infrastructure patterns for consistency across environments

* Flexibility and Portability
    teraform's declarative syntax and modular architecture provide flexibility in configuration and deployment. 
    The ability to manage resources across cloud and on-premises environments offers portability

teraform vs OpenTofu:
    teraform and OpenTofu are both infrastructure as code (IaC) tools designed for managing cloud resources, but they have distinct characteristics and licensing models that set them apart. 

How teraform is different from cicd pipeline?
    teraform and CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment) pipelines serve different but complementary roles in the software development and infrastructure management lifecycle.
    Here’s a detailed comparison highlighting their differences:
        * teraform:
            teraform is an infrastructure as code (IaC) tool that allows users to define and provision cloud infrastructure using a declarative configuration language (HCL). 
            Its primary purpose is to automate the creation, modification, and management of infrastructure resources across various cloud providers.
        * CI/CD Pipeline:
            A CI/CD pipeline is a set of automated processes that allow for continuous integration of code changes and continuous deployment of applications. 
            It focuses on automating the software delivery process, including building, testing, and deploying applications to various environments.

What is Infra provisioning?
    The process of creating infrastructure by experessing our infra needs in a declarative way and then executing the template to create infra sturcture(virtual).
        ex: I want a linux vm with 2 cpus and 8gb ram

What is infrastructure?
    Infrastructure refers to the foundational components and resources that are necessary to run applications and services. 
    This includes both low-level resources, such as servers and storage, and high-level components, such as networking configurations and DNS entries. 
    teraform enables users to define, provision, and manage these resources through a declarative configuration language called HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL).

Procedural:
manually installing.

Infrastructure as code:
    Infrastructure as a code (IAC) is a concept where you express your infrasturcture in a declarative way.
	    We need to express
	    What we want to create/manage (Resource)
	    Outputs	

Teraform components:
    Inputs:Arguments
    Outputs:attributes
    Providers: where to create
    Resource: what to create

What are teraform provider?

How teraform works:
    teraform can interact with specific providers (AWS, Azure, Vmware) to create/manage infrastructure 
    Each Provider will have lots of resources which we can define to create infra.

Executing teraform:
    teraform --help
    teraform init
    teraform apply
    teraform delete

Template:
    In teraform we need to express infrastucture in a declartive fashion and what we create is called as template.
    teraform takes a folder as input considering all .tf files a folder

teraform installation:


teraform Workflow:
    Create a new folder for every infra
    we will be adding .tf files
    initialize teraform
    validate teraform
    format teraform
    apply
    destroy    


teraform commands:
    teraform init:
    teraform validate:
    teraform fmt:
    teraform aplly:


Terraform Ways of Working:
	Ensure you know how to manually create resources
	List out all the resources and ensure you have creation order
	For each resource, list all the inputs you are passing
	For each resource you have created manually, find the equivelent terraform resource.

Resource Blocks:
Resources are the most important element in the Terraform language. 
Each resource block describes one or more infrastructure objects, such as virtual networks, compute instances, or higher-level components such as DNS records.

Resource Syntax:
ex:
	resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  		ami           = "ami-a1b2c3d4"
  		instance_type = "t2.micro"
	}
